Neuromorphic Computation

It is an approach to computing that is inspired by the structure and function of the human brain. Unlike the Von Neumann architecture,
where the data is passing between Central processing unit and memmory storage. The Neuromorphic chip, tries to mimic human brain where
data and processing is done by neurons.
In current conputers, we have electric current flow, wich indicaates either one or zero.
In real brain we have neurons, and electric current (Ion's) that flows through the synapsis (the gaps between neurons). 
Dependent by the kind, and number of ions, the receving neuron is activated in some way - this, is what Neuromorphic chip 
is trying to imitate.

There are a couple of available Neuromorphic chips today.

The most promissing today is IBM's TrueNorth or Intel's Loihi chips. They are not selling for general public, but
it is possible to get them if you ask and have good research credentials direclty from IBM or Intel.

-Intel's Loihi 2
    Neurons: 1 million
    Synapses: 120 million max

The available ones is

- Akida - BrainChip
    Has 256(configurable) neurons and configurable amount of Synapses. It accelerates complex AI at the edge through event-based 
    processing, on-chip learning abilities, and support for advanced neural networks like CNNs, RNNs & custom Temporal Event-based Nets.
- Speck - SynSense
    Speck is a fully event-driven neuromorphic vision SoC
    Neurons: 328K
    Synapses: ~278K fully-connected
- SpiNNaker 2 - University of Dresden
    Dedicated Machine Learning and Neuromorphic accelerators.
    Neurons: 1 million
    Synapses: 10000
- DynapCNN - SynSense
    Event-driven neuromorphic processor chip for spiking neural networks that achieves sub-milliwatt computation using in-memory techniques
    Neurons: 1M
    Synapses: ~2M fully-connected
- Spiking Neural Processor T1 by Innatera (2024)
    Has ~500 Neurons and ~60000 Synapses. The SNP is positioned as a single-chip solution for always-on sensing applications where tight 
    constraints on power, latency, and cost are critical. Example applications include hearables/wearables, smart-home and other 
    battery-powered IoT and edge devices.


The data about chips was taken from https://open-neuromorphic.org/neuromorphic-computing/hardware/
